Jehovah God's inspired word makes this significant declaration at Titus, chapter 2, and verse 11.
It reads,
For the undeserved kindness of God has been manifested, bringing salvation to all sorts of people.
Yes, to all sorts of people.
This was true in the first century, and it's true today, more than ever before.
We are a worldwide brotherhood made up of all sorts of people who have come to a knowledge of the truth,
and we have made the decision to serve Jehovah.
In this symposium, we will discuss three sorts of people.
First, those whose mates are not yet Jehovah's Witnesses.
Second, those who are being raised by one believing parent or relative.
And third, those who are single.
Many brothers and sisters who find themselves in these situations are successfully putting up a hard fight for the faith as stated in Jude, verse 3.
And all of them are valuable assets to the congregation.
So as we discuss each situation during this symposium, please focus your attention on those who are in the congregation that you attend and ask yourself.
How can I show my appreciation for brothers and sisters who have these circumstances?
And ask yourself, if I am in one of the situations being discussed, what will help me to continue to fight successfully for the faith?
This talk will focus on Christians with unbelieving mates.
For a well-known example, we look back to the first century to a woman named Eunice, the mother of Timothy.
She is referred to in Acts 161, which says that Timothy was the son of a believing Jewish woman, but of a Greek father.
So it refers to Eunice as a believing woman.
But it does not refer to Timothy's father as a believing man.
The point is that Timothy's father was not a Christian.
Nevertheless, Eunice, his mother, along with Lois, his grandmother, taught Timothy the holy writings, the truth as found in God's Word.
When we speak of unbelieving mates, we recognize that their circumstances are not all the same.
Some non-witness mates oppose true worship.
Others are indifferent, and others may be tolerant, even somewhat interested and supportive.
But they may not be progressing toward baptism.
Some mates of believers are baptized, but they have weakened spiritually.
They may no longer be regular at meetings, go in service, or participate in family worship.
And last of all, sad to say, some mates are disfellowshipped, but we never give up on unbelieving mates.
And we always hope that any who are disfellowshipped will come to their senses, repent, and return to Jehovah.
Is there something that we as publishers in the congregation can do to show appreciation for fellow believers whose mates are not yet serving Jehovah?
Yes, there is. And the Apostle Paul tells us at Philippians chapter 3, verse 17, that we can learn from their good example and imitate them.
Philippians chapter 3, verse 17 says,
Unitedly, become imitators of me, brothers, and keep your eye on those who are walking in a way that is in harmony with the example we set for you.
So Paul tells us to look closely at his example and the fine example of others in the congregation.
Among those setting a fine example are brothers and sisters who have unbelieving mates.
They have worked hard to maintain a strong relationship with Jehovah.
They have cultivated self-discipline to keep a good schedule of theocratic activities,
and many have become proficient in balancing family obligations with spiritual pursuits.
It's not easy, but they are doing it.
So how should we view them and treat them?
We do what Philippians chapter 2, verse 4 tells us to do.
We look out not only for our own interests, but also for the interests of others.
That means that we show concern for their well-being.
We treat them with respect.
We certainly do not ignore them.
We recognize that as spiritual people, they have much to offer.
Isn't it wonderful that we are family and we belong to one another?
We take brothers and sisters who have unbelieving mates into account,
and we look out for their interests as the Scripture states,
because we love them and we see their good qualities.
So what can we do?
Whenever possible, we should include them in our activities.
But what else can we do?
We can show interest in their mates and try to help them spiritually.
For example, if circumstances allow, invite them with their mates for a meal or to a gathering.
You know that friendliness and upbuilding conversation can have a powerful effect on a person's heart.
As you watch the following video, think about how you can show appreciation for any in your congregation
whose mates are not presently serving Jehovah.
It was when my husband was really opposed.
One night, he put a knife to his stomach and said,
will you choose me or the truth?
My husband was cooperative.
He would wave goodbyes we went to the meetings.
But he wasn't interested at all.
I felt really jealous when I saw families sitting together at assemblies.
Because of work and taking care of his mother,
my husband gradually started missing meetings.
Some in our congregation, with good intentions, pointed it out to him.
But the way they did this made him feel misunderstood and discouraged.
And he put the Bible and the publications away.
I also had times when I wanted to drift away with him.
I was really happy when I learned the truth.
In my zeal, I bombarded my husband with information.
And that made him worry that I had turned into a fanatic.
I think he was genuinely concerned for his family.
And thought that I had joined a weird religion.
One family in the congregation often invited us to meals and outdoor activities.
I think my husband appreciated those small acts of kindness.
I also tried to show that I appreciated him through my speech and conduct.
When my children and I applied what we learned in our lives,
I think he gradually became interested in the truth.
The words, safeguard your heart, caught my eye.
I decided to try and keep my heart and my children's hearts towards Jehovah.
When I went out in the ministry with my children,
I would point out various aspects of God's creation around us.
And before my husband would come home from work,
I made it a habit to teach them God's word.
I made a conscious effort to see myself in paradise with my husband.
This strengthened my resolve to never leave the truth.
I wrote caring notes to my husband when I went to the meetings.
I was convinced that he would come back one day.
And he did come back.
I did not leave Jehovah and so Jehovah never abandoned me.
My husband never embraced the truth.
However, right now, all five of my children are in the truth.
And I feel really blessed.
Being able to serve Jehovah as a family, along with my husband,
the joy and appreciation just keep dwelling up.
What did we learn from the video?
We learned that believing mates who display fine Christian qualities
can have a positive influence on mates who are not yet serving Jehovah.
So what will help you to keep on fighting for the faith?
Wisdom and strength that only Jehovah can provide.
Remember, his power is unlimited,
and he finds pleasure in showing favor to those who trust in him.
Also, you know that he loves you,
and that he listens to sincere prayers from those who want to do things his way.
The combination of God's love, prayer, and his spirit
can give you the strength and the wisdom you need to maintain a balanced routine of spiritual activities
while making sure to care for your family responsibilities.
In the video, the believing mates took advantage of all the spiritual food that was available
to build themselves up.
And Jehovah helped them to display the spiritual qualities of patience and tact.
You know, as well as I do, that at times we may not be as tactful as we should be.
Being patient and tactful is not always easy, especially when you're tired
and feel disappointed by your mates' words or actions.
And yet, regardless of your situation,
Jehovah can supply you with the power to keep setting a fine example
as you keep on praying that your mate will eventually respond to the truth.
At 1 Peter, chapter 3, verses 1 and 2,
1 Peter 3, 1 and 2,
we find this very wise and practical counsel.
1 Peter 3, 1 and 2 reads,
in the same way you wives be in subjection to your husbands
so that if any are not obedient to the Word,
they may be one without a word through the conduct of their wives.
Because of having been eyewitnesses of your chased conduct together with deep respect.
Isn't that wonderful?
The counsel that Peter gives is tested and true.
Its application has helped an untold number of unbelieving mates to accept the truth.
And when you think about it, it truly is amazing how deep respect
and fine conduct can win over an unbelieving mate without a word being spoken.
Of course, as you work what is good towards your mate,
there undoubtedly will be opportunities to speak about the truth
and provide spiritual assistance when circumstances permit
and it seems appropriate.
So keep on setting a fine example
and praying that your mate will respond to the truth.
Have faith in the inspired words that Paul wrote at 1 Corinthians, chapter 7 and verse 16.
1 Corinthians 7-16.
And remember to continue to show a positive attitude toward your mate.
1 Corinthians 7-16 poses two questions but with a positive slant.
Chapter 7 and verse 16 read,
For wife, how do you know whether you will save your husband?
Or husband, how do you know whether you will save your wife?
Yes, this text is telling us to remain positive about the possibility of a mate taking the truth.
And it is a fact that many unbelieving mates have accepted the truth
because of observing a husband or a wife who follows God's direction.
Therefore, we continue to hope, wholeheartedly,
that in time unbelieving mates will respond to the truth
and find pleasure in serving Jehovah.
As you apply divine counsel from God's Word,
be assured that with Jehovah's help,
you can continue to be a successful fighter for the faith
and bring honor to Jehovah God.
Brother Seth Hyatt, a helper to the service committee will consider the next talk.
Successful fighters for the faith, those being raised by single parents.